README.md, before:

# Telco Customer Churn - EDA & Classification ML Models 

The aim of this project is to create a machine learning model that predicts customer churn (stopping using company's service) based on the information of customers who left or stayed within the last month. 

The dataset used in this project is obtained from [Kaggle - Telco Customer Churn ](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/blastchar/telco-customer-churn/data).

## Data preparation 

Used dataset has already been prepared and has no missing values and contains 17 categorical values a 3 continuous values. 

## Exploratory data analysis 

1. Search for the most correlated feature to our target which is "Churn" column.
2. Make visualizations including previously specified features and "Churn" column in order to see pattern occurring in our data. 
3. Check if we are dealing with balanced or not classes in order to help ourselves with choosing ML model.

## Machine Learning Models

1. Chosen ML models:
   - RandomForestClassifier (RFC)
   - AdaBoostClassifier (ADC)
   - GradientBoostingClassifier (GBC)
   
Decision based on the fact that we are dealing with pretty imbalanced classes: 73,42 % rows in dataset have "No" in "Churn" column.

## Models evaluation

1. Classification report - great importance in our is attached to recall of "Yes" value as we want our model to misclassify as little as possible customers that want to stop using company's service.
2. Display confusion matrix.
3. Roc auc score.

## Solve class imbalance

1. Use ADASYN as method of dealing with class imbalance
2. Train GBC and evaluate it.
3. Repeat two upper actions but use BorderlineSMOTE instead

## Results and conclusions

Commit message:

BordelineSMOTE added, chose the best model

README.md, after:

# Telco Customer Churn - EDA & Classification ML Models 

The aim of this project is to create a machine learning model that predicts customer churn (stopping using company's service) based on the information of customers who left or stayed within the last month. 

The dataset used in this project is obtained from [Kaggle - Telco Customer Churn ](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/blastchar/telco-customer-churn/data).

## Data preparation 

Used dataset has already been prepared and has no missing values and contains 17 categorical values a 3 continuous values. 

## Exploratory data analysis 

1. Search for the most correlated feature to our target which is "Churn" column.
2. Make visualizations including previously specified features and "Churn" column in order to see pattern occurring in our data. 
3. Check if we are dealing with balanced or not classes in order to help ourselves with choosing ML model.

## Machine Learning Models

1. Chosen ML models:
   - RandomForestClassifier (RFC)
   - AdaBoostClassifier (ADC)
   - GradientBoostingClassifier (GBC)
   
Decision based on the fact that we are dealing with pretty imbalanced classes: 73,42 % rows in dataset have "No" in "Churn" column.

## Models evaluation

1. Classification report - great importance in our is attached to recall of "Yes" value as we want our model to misclassify as little as possible customers that want to stop using company's service.
2. Display confusion matrix.
3. Roc auc score.

## Solve class imbalance

1. Use ADASYN as a method of dealing with class imbalance.
2. Train GBC and evaluate it.
3. Repeat two upper actions but use BorderlineSMOTE instead.

## Model deployment

1. Train final model on whole dataset
2. Save model as a pickle file
